[Serve][Doc] Add Batching User Guide (#27731)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/batching-guide.md

> # Requests Batching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Request Batching
```

> Serve offers a request batching feature that can improve your service throughput with sacrificing latency.

Reviewer 2: Serve offers a request batching feature that can improve your overall service throughput by sacrificing some latency.

Reviewer: I think the intention is "without sacrificing latency" ?

Reviewer: @simon-mo please add a few sentences describing why batching is important for ML models (efficient vectorized computation)

Reviewer 3: It might be subtle, the worst-case latency of a request will increase because it'll be waiting for a batch instead of being processed instantly.  But if the overall throughput increases, the average latency would decrease because there won't be as long of a queue in front of each replica.  Maybe we just omit the latency part from this first sentence

> This guide will teach you:

Reviewer 2: This guide teaches you how to:

- How to use Serve's `@serve.batch` decorator
- How to configure `@serve.batch` decorator

> 

Reviewer 2: - use Serve's `@serve.batch` decorator
- configure `@serve.batch` decorator

> ML frameworks like Tensorflow, PyTorch, and Scikit-Learn are built to support efficiently evaluating multiple samples at the same time.

Reviewer 2: Machine Learning (ML) frameworks like Tensorflow, PyTorch, and Scikit-Learn efficiently   support and evaluate multiple samples at the same time.

OR drop the adverb: both are in active voice and strong action verbs.

Machine Learning (ML) frameworks like Tensorflow, PyTorch, and Scikit-Learn support and evaluate multiple samples at the same time.

Ray Serve allows you to take advantage of this feature via dynamic request batching.

> When a request arrives, it will wait in a queue. This queue buffers requests to form a batch of sample. The batch will then be picked up by the model for evaluation. After the evaluation, the result batch will be split up and send to the response individually.

Reviewer 2: When a request arrives, Serve puts the request in a queue. This queue buffers requests to form a batch sample. The batch is then be picked up by the model for evaluation. After the evaluation, the result batch is split up , and each response is sent individually.

## Enable batching for your deployment
You can enable batching by using the {mod}`ray.serve.batch` decorator. Let's take a look at an simple example. We will transform the MyModel class to accept a batch.

> ```{literalinclude} doc_code/batching_guide.py

Reviewer 2: Let's take a look at a simple example by modifying the `MyModel` class to accept a batch.

---
start-after: __single_sample_begin__
end-before: __single_sample_end__
---
```

The batching decorators expect you to make the following changes in your method signature:

> - The function should be an async method because the decorator batches in asyncio event loop.

Reviewer 2: Make the following changes to the batch decorator method signature:

- The class method is declared as an async method because the decorator batches in asyncio event loop.

> - The function should accept a list of its original input types as input. For example, `arg1: int, arg2: str` should be changed to `arg1: List[int], arg2: List[str]`.

Reviewer 2: The class method accepts a list of its original input types as input. For example, `arg1: int, arg2: str` should be changed to `arg1: List[int], arg2: List[str]`.

> - The function should return a list as well. The returned list should have exactly the same length as the input list, so that the decorator can split the output back to its individual sender.

Reviewer 2: The class method  returns a list. The length of the return list and the input list must be of equal lengths for the decorator to split the output evenly and return a corresponding response back to its respective request.

```{literalinclude} doc_code/batching_guide.py
---
start-after: __batch_begin__
end-before: __batch_end__
emphasize-lines: 6-9
---
```

You can supply two optional parameter the decorators.

> - `batch_wait_timeout_s` controls how long should Serve wait for a batch once the first request arrives.

Reviewer 2: You can supply two optional parameter to the decorators.

> You can supply two optional parameter the decorators.
> - `batch_wait_timeout_s` controls how long should Serve wait for a batch once the first request arrives.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can supply two optional parameters to the decorators.
- `batch_wait_timeout_s` controls how long Serve should wait for a batch once the first request arrives.
```

- `max_batch_size` controls the size of the batch.
Once the first request arrives, the batching decorator will wait for a full batch (up to `max_batch_size`) until `batch_wait_timeout_s` is reached. If the timeout is reached, the batch will be sent to the model regardless the batch size.

## Tips for fine-tuning batching parameters

> `max_batch_size` ideally should be power of 2s (2, 4, 8, 16, ...) because CPUs and GPUs are both optimized for data of these shapes. Large batch sizes incur a high memory cost as well as latency penalty for the first few requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`max_batch_size` ideally should be a power of 2 (2, 4, 8, 16, ...) because CPUs and GPUs are both optimized for data of these shapes. Large batch sizes incur a high memory cost as well as latency penalty for the first few requests.
```

> `max_batch_size` ideally should be power of 2s (2, 4, 8, 16, ...) because CPUs and GPUs are both optimized for data of these shapes. Large batch sizes incur a high memory cost as well as latency penalty for the first few requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`max_batch_size` ideally should be a power of 2 (2, 4, 8, 16, ...) because CPUs and GPUs are both optimized for data of these shapes. Large batch sizes incur a high memory cost as well as latency penalty for the first few requests.
```

> `batch_wait_timeout_s` should be set considering the end to end latency SLO (Service Level Objective). After all, the first requests will wait at-most this time for a full batch, adding to its latency cost. For example, if your latency target is 150ms, and the model takes 100ms to evaluate the batch, the `batch_wait_timeout_s` should be way lower than 50ms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`batch_wait_timeout_s` should be set considering the end to end latency SLO (Service Level Objective). After all, the first requests could potentially wait this long for a full batch, adding to its latency cost. For example, if your latency target is 150ms, and the model takes 100ms to evaluate the batch, the `batch_wait_timeout_s` should be set to a value much lower than 150ms - 100ms = 50ms.
```

Reviewer 3: Just to make it totally clear where 50ms comes from

> When using batching in Serve Deployment Graph, relationship between upstream node and downstream node might affect the performance as well. Consider a chain of two models, first model sets `max_batch_size=8` and second model sets `max_batch_size=6`. In this scenario, the second model will always evaluate twice when the first model finishes a full batch. The batch size of downstream models should ideally be multiples or dividers of the upstream models to ensure the batches play well together.

Reviewer 2: "In this scenario, the second model will always evaluate twice when the first model finishes a full batch."
Don't follow what you mean. Why twice? may be explain a bit.

> When using batching in Serve Deployment Graph, relationship between upstream node and downstream node might affect the performance as well. Consider a chain of two models, first model sets `max_batch_size=8` and second model sets `max_batch_size=6`. In this scenario, the second model will always evaluate twice when the first model finishes a full batch. The batch size of downstream models should ideally be multiples or dividers of the upstream models to ensure the batches play well together.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using batching in a Serve Deployment Graph, the relationship between an upstream node and a downstream node might affect the performance as well. Consider a chain of two models where the first model sets `max_batch_size=8` and second model sets `max_batch_size=6`. In this scenario, when the first model finishes a full batch or 8, the second model will finish one batch of 6 and then wait to fill the next batch, which will initially only be partially filled with 8 - 6 = 2 requests, incurring latency cost. The batch size of downstream models should ideally be multiples or divisors of the upstream models to ensure the batches play well together.
```
